.TH CINNAMON-SETTINGS 1 2019-02-10  Cinnamon "cinnamon manual"
.SH NAME
cinnamon-settings \- Configuration panel for cinnamon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cinnamon-settings [-h]
.br
\fBcinnamon-settings\fP MODULE [\fB-t\fP TAB]
.br
\fBcinnamon-settings\fP \fBapplets\fP PANEL
.br
\fBcinnamon-settings\fP \fBapplets\fP|\fBdesklets\fP|\fBextensions\fP [UUID [\fB-i\fP INSTANCE]] [\fB-t\fP TAB_INDEX]
.br
\fBcinnamon-settings\fP \fBapplets\fP|\fBdesklets\fP|\fBextensions\fP UUID INSTANCE
.br
\fBcinnamon-settings\fP \fBapplets\fP|\fBdesklets\fP|\fBextensions\fP|\fBthemes\fP [\fB-t\fP TAB]
.br
\fBcinnamon-settings\fP \fBapplets\fP|\fBdesklets\fP|\fBextensions\fP|\fBthemes -t download\fP [\fB-s\fP SORT]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
\fBcinnamon-settings\fP runs the graphical user interface allowing to configure Cinnamon.

It can also be used to run the graphical user interface allowing to configure a specific module, add applets to a panel, and manage \fIxlets\fP.
.SH MODULE
Specifying a module allows to configure it directly.
.br
The following modules are available. You can use name or synonym.
.br
The modules with \fB*\fP have a configuration interface with tabs. Each tab can be directly opened (see TAB section below).
.br
The modules with \fB**\fP need root rights to open their configuration interface. So the only tab that will always be open is the first one.

    \fBNAME                      SYNONYMS\fP
    applets\fB*\fP
    backgrounds\fB*\fP              background
    blueberry                 bluetooth
    calendar
    cinnamon-settings-users** users
    color                     colors
    default\fB*\fP
    desklets\fB*\fP
    desktop
    display                   screen, screens
    driver-manager\fB**\fP          drivers
    effects\fB*\fP
    extensions\fB*\fP
    fonts
    general
    gufw**                    firewall
    hotcorner                 hotcorners
    info                      infos
    keyboard\fB*\fP
    lightdm-settings\fB**\fP        login-screen
    mintlocale                language, locale
    mintlocale-im             input-method
    mintsources\fB**\fP             sources
    mouse\fB*\fP
    network                   networks
    notifications
    nvidia-settings           nvidia
    online-accounts           accounts
    panel                     panels
    power\fB*\fP
    privacy
    screensaver\fB*\fP
    sound\fB*\fP
    startup
    system-config-printer     printer, printers
    themes\fB*\fP
    tiling
    universal-access\fB*\fP         accessibility
    user                      me
    wacom                     tablet
    windows\fB*\fP                  window
    workspaces\fB*\fP

.SH "TAB and TAB_INDEX"
Here the modules whose configuration interface contains tabs. Specifying its name or index by the \fB-t\fP option allows to open directly this tab in the configuration interface.
.br

    \fBNAME\fP              \fBTAB_NAME: TAB_INDEX, ...\fP
    universal-access  visual: 0, keyboard: 1, typing: 2, mouse: 3
    applets           installed: 0, more: 1, download: 1
    backgrounds       images: 0, settings: 1
    default           preferred: 0, removable: 1
    desklets          installed: 0, more: 1, download: 1, general: 2
    effects           effects: 0, customize: 1,
    extensions        installed: 0, more: 1, download: 1
    keyboard          typing: 0, shortcuts: 1, layouts: 2
    mouse             mouse: 0, touchpad: 1,
    power             power: 0, batteries: 1, brightness: 2
    screensaver       settings: 0, customize: 1
    sound             output: 0, input: 1, sounds: 2,
                      applications: 3, settings: 4
    themes            themes: 0, download: 1, options: 2
    windows           titlebar: 0, behavior: 1, alttab: 2
    workspaces        osd: 0, settings: 1

.SH PANEL
PANEL is the panel on which the user want install some \fBapplets\fP.
User desktop can have up to four panels.
.br
\fBpanel1\fP is the first panel (panel by default).
.br
\fBpanel2\fP, \fBpanel3\fP and \fBpanel4\fP exist only if the user has created them.

.SH "UUID and INSTANCE"
The applets, desklets, extensions and themes are the \fIxlets\fP.
.br

Each xlet has an UUID (Universal Unique IDentifier). The structure of an UUID is xlet_name@author, except for themes.
.br

There are two kinds of xlets: System and Spices.
.br

System xlets are in \fB/usr/share/cinnamon/applets/\fP, \fB/usr/share/cinnamon/desklets/\fP and \fB/usr/share/themes/\fP; their UUID ends with '@cinnamon.org' except for themes. There is no system extension.
.br

Spices are xlets offered by developers to the Cinnamon team, which evaluates and validates them. Complete description of these Spices can be found at https://cinnamon-spices.linuxmint.com/.
.br
The Spices installed by user are in \fB~/.local/share/cinnamon\fP (for applets, desklets and extensions) and in \fB~/.themes\fP.

INSTANCE argument is reserved to developers. When an applet or desklet has multiple instances, the configuration interface of each of them can be directly opened by this INSTANCE argument. Users have neither the possibility nor the need to know the value of INSTANCE.

.SH SORT
.TP
Possible choices are:
.br
 - \fBname\fP or \fB0\fP
.br
 - \fBscore\fP or \fB1\fP (default value)
.br
 - \fBdate\fP or \fB2\fP
.br
 - \fBinstalled\fP or \fB3\fP
.br
 - \fBupdate\fP or \fB4\fP (upgradable Spices first, then acts as \fBdate\fP)

.SH OPTIONS
The following options are supported:
.TP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP
Print a help text describing the supported command-line options, and then exit.
.TP
\fB-s\fP SORT, \fB--sort=\fPSORT
Specific to the 'download' tab (see below) for \fBapplets\fP, \fBdesklets\fP, \fBextensions\fP and \fBthemes\fP modules.
.TP
\fB-t\fP TAB, \fB--tab=\fPTAB
Select the tab to open in the settings. Possible choices are:
 - A number from 0 to \fIn\fP-1, where \fIn\fP is the number of available tabs.
 - The name of the tab (see list below).

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
To open System Settings:
$ \fBcinnamon-settings\fP

.TP
To open the printer settings:
.br
$ \fBcinnamon-settings printers\fP

.TP
To open the settings of an installed applet, desklet or extension:
$ \fBcinnamon-settings\fP TYPE UUID
.br
Examples:
.br
$ \fBcinnamon-settings applets SpicesUpdate@claudiux\fP
.br
$ \fBcinnamon-settings desklets photoframe@cinnamon.org\fP
.br
$ \fBcinnamon-settings extensions watermark@germanfr\fP
.TP
To add some applets on the second panel (if exists):
$ \fBcinnamon-settings applets panel2\fP
.TP
To open the download tab of the applets settings:
$ \fBcinnamon-settings applets --tab=download\fP
.br
or
.br
$ \fBcinnamon-settings applets -t 1\fP

.TP
To open the download tab of a type of Spices (applets, desklets, extensions, themes), sorting them by 'name', 'score', 'date', 'installed' or 'update', use the '--sort=' or '-s' argument:
.br
$ \fBcinnamon-settings TYPE --tab=download --sort=SORT\fP
.br
or
.br
$ \fBcinnamon-settings TYPE -t 1 -s SORT\fP
.br
where TYPE can be \fBapplets\fP, \fBdesklets\fP, \fBextensions\fP or \fBthemes\fP
.br
and SORT can be \fBname\fP (or \fB0\fP), \fBscore\fP (or \fB1\fP), \fBdate\fP (or \fB2\fP), \fBinstalled\fP (or \fB3\fP), \fBupdate\fP (or \fB4\fP)

Example:
.br
$ \fBcinnamon-settings applets -t 1 -s date\fP

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cinnamon-menu-editor (1)

.SH "CONTRIBUTORS"
Claude Clerc (claudiux) and Nicolas Bourdaud (nbourdau).
